All right guys welcome back to the course.
So in the last couple lectures we talked about how search and Google work and what longtail CEO specifically
is all about.
Now basically if we want to get our website found by anybody out there we need to create content that's
going to get ranked for the keywords our potential customers are searching for.
So an important part of our plan is going to be the identification of the keywords we want to focus
on.
That's what we're going to talk about in this lecture.
Now the goal of keyword research is to come up with the keyword list that guides the creation of your
articles.
Post videos and other pieces of content.
It's really kind of a one two punch with content marketing now with content marketing you can write
whatever you want and then focus on other ways promoting it.
But if you want to use search and you won't be you find it through Google while you're going to have
to do keyword research and then start writing articles.
Now you might have a singular focus meaning that your web site is devoted to say one topic a product
or service or you know the one topic you write about exclusively where you might have a group of things
you focus on maybe you're a blogger or a podcast there were five main topics or you have multiple groups
of products or services that covered different areas of interest.
Either way your first step is to identify the categories you'll be writing about.
It could be one or many but this is how you get started.
A Productivity and organization app like let's say Evernote for example really has a singular focus
productivity.
There are obviously related terms like organization or idea capture or like diary and writing things
down.
But really there's one thing the app focuses on and one specific topic there are articles and blog posts
focus on having one main topic you write about is great.
Now it provides some focus so that can be a good thing.
The downside obviously though is that you can only rank for that topic and so you do have a bit of a
ceiling depending on the keywords you're going after.
Of course if you do this well it's really not going to matter.
The ocean of search is so vast that is the last thing I'd be worried about.
Now a counterexample would be something like Shopify which covers a lot of topics Shaab Vihear Lunda
their blog or the site they provide e-commerce solutions for all kinds of customers.
But the content they write goes beyond e-commerce.
They write articles and blog posts about how to run a business enterprise solutions marketing branding
and podcasting.
They've got a much wider focus so if they wanted to create content that ranked highly Well they'd have
to focus on multiple categories full of keywords for each category you have you want to follow a plan
to do keyword research and generate keywords to focus on.
Our plan goes a little something like this.
Now number one step number one is you have to think up some keyword ideas for your category.
Usually you want to start with 10 to 12.
Number two use some free tools to expand that list and then you'll end up with potentially hundreds
of keywords.
Now don't panic we're obviously in a filter those out.
Number three is going to research the expanded list and Google to see what the traffic numbers and trends
look like and then number four decide which key words are the ones we want to focus on.
So in the end will a short list of key word phrases and terms we can use to guide our efforts as we
create articles and write other pieces of whatever.
So the first step is you brainstorm and come up with Hiebert ideas.
Now a list of 10 would be ideal to get us started.
And it shouldn't be too hard since you know there's probably going to be some overlap.
Now go back to Evernham.
Let's use that for example if your brain's stimulus forever.
Well we might come up with something like this Evernote app productivity app organization app mobile
organization mobile productivity.
How do you use Evernote Evernote features how to improve productivity app how to be better at things
whatever and such and such and so on.
Now each one isn't too different and that's fine.
You should definitely focus on the easiest ways to describe your product your app or your service for
the most obvious ways people would search to find you if you're struggling at this point to come off.
Ideas that's perfectly OK.
Now go to Google and type in your first keyword and scroll to the bottom of the the R.P. and look at
the list of searches related to that specific keyword.
Now I should be like eight of them there.
And if you need a kick in the brain to get you going that can potentially help.
That's a really easy kind of shortcut.
Now it might be the case that if you know you have your 500 customers already some people are aware
of you and some people will be searching for you.
So in that case you have situations where some of the key words are going to include your brand name.
So try your best to write down 10 to 12 key words for what you would imagine people are searching for
or at least how you're angling your product.
How do you describe your product how would you describe it.
Most generically most blandly if you were to describe the category let's bring back one of those sections
We're back and PR if we were work out.
Remember it was an app that you run with and it tells how fast you're running and changes the tempo
of a song you're listening to what would we search for if I was a customer why would I search for if
I was looking for them.
One of the keywords might be listen to music while running or running customized music or just music
for running any different combination of something like that.
Exercise music.
Best exercise music.
Things like that.
It doesn't really matter.
We're always going to whittle these down later but try your best to get 10 or 12 that you think would
be the main way someone would find you.
Once you do get those 10 or 12 key words pause right there now you don't need perfect ideas right off
the bat.
This is why we're doing research.
Now you can go out and use some free tools to expand this list especially if you're stuck.
Will need a lot more keyword phrases to do research on traffic.
So let's jump out to our first tool which is called keyword tool.
Io.
Now if we plug in we're going to go back to our Evernote example productivity app well where you get
over 250 key word results.
Now these are all related variations on the term we put in and we'll be able to use this list to help
us figure out which specific phrases are the best for us to focus on.
Remember the long tail we don't necessarily want to focus on the most popular keywords.
Instead we want to find the best specific ones.
We have a chance of ranking for.
So what do we do with a list of key word results from the key tool.
I go wow.
Copy the phrases and paste them back into your spreadsheet.
What are a spreadsheet or where you wrote down your 10 or 12 keywords to begin with.
Google sheet Excel whatever.
Now keyword to has this free version that lets you copy all of these phrases or you could use another
tool like Oubre suggest google suggests is another one.
They have a free tool but I believe they'll have a paid tier.
Usually you can get everything you need out of the free version and if that is a working noise you are
free trial and of course and you really do love it.
You can end up paying for it.
So after you copy and paste the phrases for the first keyword move onto the next one in your list of
10 to 12.
Once you're done with that well you'll have a massive pile of keywords which we can start whittling
down on.
At this point what we want to do now is I want to jump over to Google's keyword planner Now Google's
keyword planner is kind of the granddaddy of all keyword pointers.
It's comes from Google because they have all the information about who's searching for what all these
other third party services technically don't have the data.
They're just guessing based on what Google let them know.
Now of course Google doesn't want to tell you 100 percent of the truth because what's the point that
everyone would just focus on the only keywords that were getting traffic and everybody would ignore
all the other kind of corners of the Internet universe.
But anyway with Google Keyword planner the purpose here we're going to do with it is going to work on
plugging that giant list of keywords and variations into it and then we're to see which ones actually
get decent traffic and also feel like a good fit for you to focus on.
Now Google's keyword tool it's called keyword planner.
Now it's usually like add words Google dot com slash tool slash something like that.
Generally I just Google it just Google Google Keyword planner.
Always be the first results.
Now the traffic analysis they give you when you plug in your stuff and then just search for traffic
is going to give you some data.
But you still have to look at these terms and decide if they seem like a good match.
So if you jump into that keyword planner and just Google it first result click on the button that says
Get search volume data and trends.
Now you'll see a window where you can paste your keyword in there.
You can actually copy and paste the entire list of the hundreds of keywords you've got.
And I'd like to save you enormous amount of time that what you do is just click get search volume and
at the bottom.
Now what is going to do is produce a long list of results.
But the easiest thing to do is to just export that list right out to Excel or whatever spreadsheet you
use you can analyze it.
So use the export function.
And then once you have that export it open it up again once you're in your sheet or your Excel or whatever
you guys use your air table whatever you can basically begin by eliminating terms with high volume that
are too competitive.
Now let's not obviously shoot for terms that huge companies are battling for sort the data by column
says average monthly searches.
Now any term with over 10000 volume like productivity apps or organization apps in our example.
I mean they're accurate and that's good.
But you have to look at the competition of the competition high.
And unfortunately it's just not something worth focusing on right now.
You can also ignore the terms that have low volume because of a lack of interest or include specific
terms that you just don't necessarily want to include like you know messaging her organizer app and
someone search for room organizer or app or team organized organization app.
Well those don't technically apply and that's kind of the game you play with these loose keyword matches.
So this might take a little bit of time.
Get rid of those ones that are way too competitive and then get rid of the ones that just don't get
enough traffic for you to really care.
Or you know the ones that just don't make any sense.
So one of the turns it starts to look interesting is organizer app.
Well it's slightly different from Organization app but different enough that the search volume is lower.
So might be a term we might look into.
If I had to guess it's probably because it doesn't really make sense like why poets are in search for
organizer.
Usually it's like a task organizer app or task list or get organized or something like that.
That's my guess but it seems like people are searching it now to get some more info on it.
Let's head over to Google trends so we can see how some of these promising terms of performed recently
nerver we use google translate a long time ago but it's pretty easy Google dot com slash trends pretty
straightforward.
Once you plug it in just answer the question.
Are they trending up or down.
Now ideally we want to go with keywords that are trending up or at least are holding steady and avoid
the ones that people are showing less interest in than before.
Because remember SEO is a long term play takes a lot of effort.
We don't want to work on something Finally rank in it.
When people stop using it.
So let's type in productivity up organization app organizer app how to use Evernote into the field up
top and see what it returns by default.
Stats for the last five years so let's go to the date range and change it to the last 12 months to see
if there's any more detail we can see.
Well it's interesting because while all the terms of pretty steady interest I can see that organizer
has consistently had more interest than Organization.
Well it's a slightly different term but apparently that makes a big difference.
You'll see this all over keywords you never thought would be more popular.
So if I were Evernote I want to make sure I added organizer to the list of keyword phrases I was using
in my articles and post.
Now repeat this process for each of the key word phrases you come across in your research that looks
promising promising meaning there's a difference between the competition and the search results.
It's in a healthy range of not too many searches not too few.
And the competition is manageable.
So really it's just these three steps.
If you read the key word phrase it should sound like something someone would use to try and find a product
or service like yours.
Then too the data should show that it has a decent search volume too high is too competitive and too
low means low interest.
And then three according to Google Trends we use that the interest should be steady or trending upwards.
Keywords that meet these three criteria should be the ones you consider focusing on when writing articles
and post for your website or blog.
As I've mentioned here are all free.
They'll pay for some other tools like SVM rush or words stream.
While you can get more detailed information for keyword phrases.
Now is it worth paying them.
Well if you're running a lot of content it might be.
But if you're just starting out or trying to expand or you've already been doing going through steps
like these might reveal new keyword phrases you didn't consider before the process after this is really
better than picking the ones you think are the most promising have the biggest opportunity and then
you start preparing content or angling some of your old stuff for it.
Sounds good.
OK let's posit here and end our next lecture.
We can take another scenario for a test drive to try and find more keyword phrases.
So either.